# A first Experience with Essence Editor for Company of Heroes 3...

Christopher Fernand Miyashiki Gonzalez
March 10, 2023

  For this joural entry, I had decided I would try out something new. A new release to the franchise of my favorite game had recently come out. While I was super excited for the game, what caught my eye was the advertisement for the new in game SDK or Standard Developer Kit, which allows users to make content for the game such as maps, tuning pack, and much more. The developers had also claimed this would be a begginer friendly application so I figured "Why not learn how to make mods?" This however would prove to be more frustrating than anticipated and through a new users lens, dissapointing. In the first images (Featuring the COH 3 watermark) The developers show off the editors tools and how it works only in level design however. In the images that follow one can see what I had to do to even get the application to run. The developers had claimed if the user had typed in the title of the game, the tool would appear in the steam search library. This would prove to be incorrect as I did not find it this way. As a matter  of fact, I had to look up how to find this editor, only to find a thread hidden on reddit explaining that you can launch the editor from the games folder. Once I had done so, Looking at the editors User Interface I was confused on how to operate it at first. For starters there is no feedback when clicking on something so you do not know if you actualy did successfully interact with the option unless it loaded a new menu or opended a map. This was not only uninviting to new users, but I gave up using the tool because I couldn't figure out if it worked or not. I left dissapointed, frustrated, and felt betrayed by the false advertisement. 
